## Upgrade Instructions

-   [Python SDK](../classiq_101/registration_installations.md/#platform-version-updates)
-   The IDE upgrades automatically.

## Interface Changes

1. The `control` and `quantum_if` statements have been unified into one
   statement in native Qmod and the SDK under the name `control`.
    - SDK: The unified `control` statement accepts a qbit (`q`), a q-array
      (`qbv`), or a comparison of a qnum and an integer (`n == 5`) as the
      first argument.
    - SDK: The old `control` syntax (with `ctrl` as the second argument) is
      deprecated and will be removed in the next release.
    - SDK: The `quantum_if` operator is deprecated and will be removed in the
      next release.
    - Native Qmod: `quantum_if` is no longer supported, use the new `control`
      statement instead.
2. SDK: The `QParam` and `Array` types are deprecated and will be
   removed in the next release.
    - Instead of `QParam[int]`, use `CInt`.
    - Instead of `QParam[float]`, use `CReal`.
    - Instead of `QParam[bool]`, use `CBool`.
    - Instead of `QParam[List[...]]`, use `CArray[...]`.
    - Instead of `QParam[Array[..., size]]`, use `CArray[..., size]`.
3. SDK: Using Python types (`int`, `bool`, etc.) in struct declarations
   (`@struct`) is deprecated and will not be supported by the next release.
   Instead, use classical data types (`CInt`, `CBool`, etc., see above).
4. Default timeout for sending jobs to AWS changed from 5 minutes to 4 hours.

## Deprecations

1. The error mitigation settings in the execution preferences are no longer
   available.
2. The `aer_simulator` backend has been removed. Use Classiq's simulator backend
   instead (`ClassiqSimulatorBackendNames.SIMULATOR`).

## Enhancements

1. Improved error messages.

## Bug fixes

1. Fixed a bug preventing execution of circuits synthesized with hardware aware synthesis on Azure and IonQ.
