## Upgrade Instructions

-   [Python SDK](../classiq_101/registration_installations.md/#platform-version-updates)
-   The IDE upgrades automatically.

## Bug Fixes

1. Fixed an error related to the translation of certain circuits between synthesis and execution.
2. Fixed an error when calling a function with local variables multiple times.

## Enhancements

1. HHL workshop was added to the public repository and to the User Guide.
2. It is now possible to use the execution primitives `estimate` and `vqe` with models
   with multiple output ports. The hamiltonian should match all the output ports
   by their order.
3. Amplitude encoding assignments (`ind *= foo(n)`) support all quantum numeric
   variables, not only unsigned fractions.
4. Add support for lookup tables in amplitude encoding assignments, e.g.,
   `ind *= [0, 0.5, 0.5, 1][n]` where `n` is an unsigned quantum integer
   (`ind *= subscript([0, 0.5, 0.5, 1], n)` in the SDK).
5. A quantum COSINE and SINE transforms of types I and II were added to the open library,
   see [Quantum COSINE and SINE Transforms](../explore/functions/qmod_library_reference/classiq_open_library/qct_qst/qct_qst.ipynb).
6. New algorithm was added to the library: "Variational Quantum Linear Solver (VQLS) with Linear Combination of Unitaries (LCU) Block Encoding"
   [Variational Quantum Linear Solver](../explore/algorithms/vqls/lcu_vqls/vqls_with_lcu.ipynb)
7. `Alice & Bob` provider is now accessible.

## Interface Changes

1. `compute_qaoa_initial_point` is now exposed in the SDK directly from `classiq` package.
   `from classiq import compute_qaoa_initial_point`
2. The examples in IDE Flow page are replaced with a new arithmetics example.

## Bug Fixes

1. Properly evaluate type attributes in `main`.
    - Native Qmod: `qnum`'s sign field can be specified with lowercase
      `true`/`false` in `main`'s signature.
2. Fix execution results received from running on Amazon Braket to be correct
   when the measured outputs are not all of the variables of the model.
3. Improve language error reporting.

## IDE

1. Uniform drawer width for all pages
2. New way to trigger node options context menu on Graphical Model page: node options menu can now be triggered by right-clicking a selected node
