Released on 2024-09-10.

## Upgrade Instructions

-   [Python SDK](../classiq_101/registration_installations.md/#platform-version-updates)
-   The IDE upgrades automatically.

<!-- cspell:ignore significand -->

## Enhancements

1. Improved error messages.
2. Added `SIGNED` and `UNSIGNED` built-in constants to improve readability of
   QNum types. SDK: `QNum[4, SIGNED, 1]`. Native: `qnum<4, SIGNED, 1>`.
3. `QNum` types can specify just the size property. SDK: `QNum[4]` and
   `QNum("n", 4)`. Native: `qnum<4>`. Such types are unsigned
   (`is_signed=False`) integers (`fraction_digits=0`) by default.
4. Execution on remote providers is no longer subject to any time limit when using `ExecutionSession`
   or executing models without classical execution code. Note: simulation on Classiq backends is still subject to time limit.
5. In-place add operations (`inplace_add`) now support signed variables.

## Bug Fixes

1. Fixed an operand-related bug. Might occur when calling a function recursively
   in one of its operands (for example: `foo(lambda: foo(...))`).
2. Fixed an expression-related bug. Might occur when using the same variable
   in multiple expressions.
3. Fixed in-place XOR operations (`^=` / `inplace_xor`) in the presence of
   signed variables. The sign variable is now interpreted as part of the
   significand without special treatment.
4. Fixed synthesis of arithmetic operations nested in a within-apply statement.

## Interface Changes

1. SDK: Deprecated parameter names in built-in operations were removed.
    - `control(ctrl=..., operand=...)` => `control(ctrl=..., stmt_block=...)`
    - `within_apply(compute=..., action=...)` => `within_apply(within=..., apply=...)`
    - `power(power=..., operand=...)` => `power(exponent=..., stmt_block=...)`
    - `invert(operand=)` => `invert(stmt_block=...)`

## Library Additions

1. Added a new notebook for solving the Differential equation using the HHL Algorithm, to simulate war games.
