Released on 2024-10-02.

## Upgrade Instructions

-   [Python SDK](../classiq_101/registration_installations.md/#platform-version-updates)
-   The IDE upgrades automatically.

## Enhancements

1. Optimize synthesis of variable and constant assignments (`x ^= y`, `x += 3`).
2. The behavior of synthesis with [`debug_mode`](../user-guide/synthesis/preferences.md/?h=debug_mo#toggling-quantum-program-debug-information)
   set to `False` has been changed, such that synthesis process is up to 50% faster. However,
   the resulting visualized quantum program may lose much of its hierarchical structure.
   Note that the default value for debug_mode is still `True`, and this mode's behavior remains unchanged.
3. The maximum number of shots in a single execution on Nvidia simulators has
   been increased to 1,000,000.

## Bug Fixes

1. Improve circuit width estimation when `machine_precision` is set.
2. Removing the non-gate-based devices from the available AWS Bracket devices.
3. Fix `n ^= 1` assignments where `n` has a single qubit
   (used to raise an exception).

## Notice

-   With the release of this version (`0.52.0`),
    execution with older SDK versions may result in errors or unexpected behavior.
    To ensure proper execution of your quantum programs via the SDK,
    please upgrade to the latest version (See instructions guide above).

-   The `Pydantic` package dependency has been upgraded from version 1 to version 2.
    If you are using an older version of `Pydantic` in the same environment as our SDK,
    this may lead to compatibility issues.
    Note that installing or upgrading the SDK will also update your `Pydantic` version to V2.
    It is recommended to verify compatibility across your environment.
