Released on 2024-12-16.

## Upgrade Instructions

-   [Python SDK](../classiq_101/registration_installations.md/#platform-version-updates)
-   The IDE upgrades automatically.

## Enhancements

1. Added a new simulator under the Classiq provider, under the name `ClassiqNvidiaBackendNames.SIMULATOR_STATEVECTOR`.
   This simulator runs on a GPU and returns a state vector, similar to
   `ClassiqSimulatorBackendNames.SIMULATOR_STATEVECTOR` (which runs on a CPU).
   Thus, it can handle larger circuits. The name `"nvidia_state_vector_simulator"`
   is deprecated in favor of `ClassiqNvidiaBackendNames.SIMULATOR`. See [here](../user-guide/execution/cloud-providers/classiq-backends.md/#nvidia-simulator-usage) for more information.

## Bug Fixes

1. Fix the connectivity map of the `rigetti.qpu.ankaa-9q-3` backend in Azure Quantum.
2. Fix the connectivity map of Amazon Braket devices.
3. Fix a bug in the method `from_id` of `ExecutionJob`.

## Deprecations

1. Parameters `value` and `target` of functions `inplace_add` and `inplace_xor`
   have been renamed to `expression` and `target_var` respectively.
    - In Native Qmod, use `+=` and `^=` instead of `inplace_add` and `inplace_xor`
      respectively.

## IDE

1. Qmod examples on the Model page now contain direct links to their respective tutorials in the Classiq documentation. Simply hover over an algorithm list item from the QMODs list in the left panel and a tooltip will appear with link to the relevant tutorial.

### New Visualization:

1. Captured variables are now shown as uninitialized.
