Released on 2025-07-15.

## Upgrade Instructions

-   [Python SDK](../classiq_101/registration_installations.md/#platform-version-updates)
-   The IDE upgrades automatically.

## Enhancements

-   [Concatenations](https://docs.classiq.io/latest/qmod-reference/language-reference/quantum-variables/#concatenation-operator)
    can now also be used as [control](https://docs.classiq.io/latest/qmod-reference/language-reference/statements/control/)
    expressions.
-   Lower model creation and synthesis run times for large models.

## Bug Fixes

-   Classical `if` statements are now supported in QP visualization, where they previously caused a failure.
-   Fix synthesis bug which caused wrong results when using the bitwise invert (`~`) operator.
-   Fix bug relating to classical struct arguments (such as
    [Hamiltonians](https://docs.classiq.io/latest/qmod-reference/language-reference/classical-types/#hamiltonians)).
-   Use the Solovay-Kitaev algorithm in more cases when transpiling. Previously, we used the algorithm when transpiling with
    respect to a particular fixed set of basis gates. Now, we use this algorithm whenever the basis gate set contains the Clifford gates
    `X`, `Z`, `H`, `T`, and `CX` but does not contain arbitrary-angle rotation gates such as `RX` or `CRZ`.

## Classiq IDE

1. Add mechanism to allow more models to be visualized in new visualization.

2. ### Visualization: Data Tab Removal

The Data tab has been removed from the left panel in the visualization interface. This change is removing redundant functionality.

3. ### Deprecation: QP Visualization Basic View Mode

Deprecated "Basic" mode quantum program visualization in favor of the new visualization scheme with enhanced designs, views, and analysis capabilities.

4. ### Visualization: Focused Search

The search panel focuses only on user written functions and QMOD statements.
